.TH AUDITD.CRON "5" "Feb 2025" "Red Hat" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
auditd.conf \- time-based rotation of audit logs
.SH DESCRIPTION
By default, the audit daemon (auditd) supports size-based log rotation, where logs are rotated once they reach a specified size, as configured in 
.I /etc/audit/auditd.conf.
This manual describes an alternative method: time-based log rotation using
.B cron.
Using this approach, audit logs can be rotated at specified intervals (hourly, daily, weekly or on a custom date), regardless of their size.

.SH CONFIGURATION

.B 1.Disable Size-Based Rotation:  

To enable time-based log rotation, first disable \fBauditd's\fP built-in size-based rotation by setting the following parameter in
.I /etc/audit/auditd.conf:

.RS
max_log_file_action = ignore
.RE

.B 2. Configure Log Retention:

The 
.B num_logs
parameter determines the number of rotated log files to keep. For daily rotation, setting 

.RS
num_logs = 7
.RE

ensures that logs from the last seven days are retained. However, on busy systems, audit logs may grow rapidly, potentially leading to a lack of disk space. To prevent this, ensure that the 
.B space_left_action
parameter is configured to handle low-disk-space situations appropriately.

.B 3. Apply Configuration Changes:

After modifying the main auditd configuration file, reload auditd to apply the changes:

.RS
auditctl --signal reload
.RE

.B 4. Deploy the Rotation Script:

Copy the provided
.B auditd.cron
script to the appropriate cron directory (
.IR cron.daily
or 
.IR cron.hourly
or
.IR cron.weekly
, depending on your rotation preference). Then, ensure the file has the correct SELinux labels:

.RS
cp /usr/share/doc/audit/auditd.cron /etc/cron.daily
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR auditd.conf (5),
.BR auditd (8),
.BR cron(8).

.SH AUTHOR
Attila Lakatos
