.TH "AUDIT_LOG_SEMANAGE_MESSAGE" "3" "Jan 2012" "Red Hat" "Linux Audit API"
.SH NAME
audit_log_semanage_message \- log a semanage message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libaudit.h>
.sp
.BI "int audit_log_semanage_message(int" audit_fd, int" type, .B const char *" pgname, const char *" op, const char *" name, unsigned int" id, .B const char *" new_seuser, const char *" new_role, const char *" new_range, .B const char *" old_seuser, const char *" old_role, const char *" old_range, .B const char *" host, const char *" addr, const char *" tty, int" result);"

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function will log a message to the audit system using a predefined
message format. It should be used for all SE Linux user and role
manipulation operations. The function parameters are as follows:

.nf
\fIaudit_fd\fP - The fd returned by audit_open
\fItype\fP - type of message: AUDIT_ROLE_ASSIGN/REMOVE for changing any SE Linux user or role attributes.
\fIpgname\fP - program's name
op  -  operation. "adding-user", "adding-role", "deleting-user", "deleting-role"
\fIname\fP - user's account. If not available use NULL.
id  -  uid that the operation is being performed on. This is used only when name is NULL.
\fInew_seuser\fP - the new seuser that the login user is getting
\fInew_role\fP - the new_role that the login user is getting
\fInew_range\fP - the new mls range that the login user is getting
\fIold_seuser\fP - the old seuser that the login usr had
\fIold_role\fP - the old role that the login user had
\fIold_range\fP - the old mls range that the login usr had
\fIhost\fP - The hostname if known
\fIaddr\fP - The network address of the user
tty  - The tty of the user
\fIresult\fP - 1 is "success" and 0 is "failed"
.fi

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

It returns the sequence number which is > 0 on success or <= 0 on error.

.SH "ERRORS"

This function returns \-1 on failure. Examine errno for more info.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR audit_log_user_message (3),
.BR audit_log_acct_message (3),
.BR audit_log_user_avc_message (3),
.BR audit_log_user_comm_message (3).

.SH AUTHOR
Steve Grubb
