.TH "AUDIT_GET_FEATURES" "3" "July 2025" "Red Hat" "Linux Audit API"
.SH NAME
audit_get_features, audit_set_feature \- query or change kernel audit features
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libaudit.h>
.sp
.BI "uint32_t audit_get_features(void);"
.br
.BI "int audit_set_feature(int " fd ", unsigned " feature ", unsigned " value ", unsigned " lock );"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR audit_get_features ()
returns a bitmap describing which kernel audit features are supported.  The bitmap is cached internally and retrieved from the kernel on the first call.
.PP
.BR audit_set_feature ()
changes a feature bit for the kernel using the descriptor
.I fd
which must be an open audit netlink socket.
.I feature
selects the bit to modify.  If
.I value
is nonzero the feature is enabled, otherwise it is disabled.  If
.I lock
is nonzero the feature setting is locked until reboot.
.PP
The feature bits currently defined are:
.TP
.B AUDIT_FEATURE_BITMAP_BACKLOG_LIMIT
Kernel supports changing the backlog queue depth.
.TP
.B AUDIT_FEATURE_BITMAP_BACKLOG_WAIT_TIME
Kernel supports delaying syscalls when the queue is full.
.TP
.B AUDIT_FEATURE_BITMAP_EXECUTABLE_PATH
Kernel will include the executable path on EXECVE records.
.TP
.B AUDIT_FEATURE_BITMAP_EXCLUDE_EXTEND
Exclude rules may be used with more fields than just message type.
.TP
.B AUDIT_FEATURE_BITMAP_SESSIONID_FILTER
Session identifier filtering is supported.
.TP
.B AUDIT_FEATURE_BITMAP_LOST_RESET
Allows resetting the lost event counter.
.TP
.B AUDIT_FEATURE_BITMAP_FILTER_FS
Kernel supports file system field filtering.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR audit_get_features
returns the feature bitmap or 0 if feature queries are unsupported.  
.BR audit_set_feature
returns \<= 0 on error, otherwise it is the netlink sequence id number.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audit_request_features (3),
.BR audit_reset_lost (3),
.BR audit_open (3).
.SH AUTHOR
Steve Grubb
