.TH "AUDIT_ENCODE_NV_STRING" "3" "May 2026" "Red Hat" "Linux Audit API"
.SH NAME
audit_encode_nv_string \- encode a name/value pair in a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libaudit.h>
.PP
.BI "char *audit_encode_nv_string(const char *" name ", const char *" value ", unsigned int " vlen )"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
This function formats a name/value pair for logging by the audit system.
This should be used on any field being logged that might contain a space,
a double-quote, a C0 control byte, a DEL byte, or a non-ASCII byte. Values
containing those bytes have to be specially encoded for the auparse library
to correctly handle the value. The encoding method is designed to prevent
log injection attacks where malicious values could cause parsing errors.
.PP
To use this function, pass the
.I name
string and
.I value
string in their respective arguments.
The
.I name
argument must not be NULL, and is copied as-is before the '=' separator.
The value is checked with
.BR audit_value_needs_encoding (3).
If encoding is needed, the returned string has the form
.IR name = HEX ,
where
.I HEX
is the uppercase hexadecimal encoding of the value bytes. If encoding is
not needed, the returned string has the form
.IR name = "value" .
.PP
If
.I value
is NULL, a question mark is used as the value. If
.I vlen
is 0, the function uses
.BR strlen (3)
to determine the value length. If the value may contain an embedded NUL byte,
pass the value length in
.I vlen
bytes.
.PP
Also be aware that the
.I name
of the field will cause auparse to do certain things when interpreting the
value. If the
.I name
is uid, a user id value in decimal is expected. Make sure that well known
names are used for their intended purpose or that there is no chance of name
collision with something new.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

Returns a freshly malloc'ed string that the caller must free or NULL on error.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR audit_log_user_message (3),
.BR audit_log_user_comm_message (3),
.BR audit_log_user_avc_message (3),
.BR audit_log_semanage_message (3),
.BR audit_encode_value (3),
.BR audit_value_needs_encoding (3).

.SH AUTHOR
Steve Grubb
