.TH "AUDIT_LOG_ACCT_MESSAGE" "3" "Nov 2015" "Red Hat" "Linux Audit API"
.SH NAME
audit_log_acct_message \- log a user account message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libaudit.h>
.sp
.BI "int audit_log_acct_message(int" audit_fd, int" type, const char *" pgname, const char *" op, const char *" name, unsigned int" id, const char *" host, const char *" addr, const char *" tty, int" result);"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This function will log a message to the audit system using a predefined message format. It should be used for all account manipulation operations. The function
parameters are as follows:

.RS
.TP
\fIaudit_fd\fP - The fd returned by audit_open
.TP
\fItype\fP - type of message: AUDIT_USER_CHAUTHTOK for changing any account attributes.
.TP
\fIpgname\fP - program's name, if NULL will attempt to figure out
.TP
op  -  operation. Ex: "adding-user", "changing-finger-info", "deleting-group". This value should have a dash or underscore between the words so that report parsers group them together.
.TP
\fIname\fP - user's account or group name. If not available use NULL.
.TP
id  -  uid or gid that the operation is being performed on. If the user is unknown, pass a \-1 and fill in the name parameter. This is used only when user is NULL.
.TP
\fIhost\fP - The hostname if known. If not available pass a NULL.
.TP
\fIaddr\fP - The network address of the user. If not available pass a NULL.
.TP
tty  - The tty of the user, if NULL will attempt to figure out
.TP
\fIresult\fP - 1 is "success" and 0 is "failed"
.RE

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

It returns the sequence number which is > 0 on success or <= 0 on error.

.SH "ERRORS"

This function returns \-1 on failure. Examine errno for more info.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR audit_log_user_message (3),
.BR audit_log_user_comm_message (3),
.BR audit_log_user_avc_message (3),
.BR audit_log_semanage_message (3).

.SH AUTHOR
Steve Grubb
