.TH AUDISPD.CONF: "5" "June 2018" "Red Hat" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
audispd.conf \- the audit event dispatcher configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaudispd.conf\fP is the file that controls the configuration of the audit event dispatcher. Each line should contain one configuration keyword, an equal sign, and then followed by appropriate configuration information. All option names and values are case insensitive. The keywords recognized are listed and described below. Each line should be limited to 160 characters or the line will be skipped. You may add comments to the file by starting the line with a '#' character.

.TP
.I q_depth
This is a numeric value that tells how big to make the internal queue of the audit event dispatcher. A bigger queue lets it handle a flood of events better, but could hold events that are not processed when the daemon is terminated. If you get messages in syslog about events getting dropped, increase this value. The default value is 180.
.TP
.I overflow_action
This option determines how the daemon should react to overflowing its internal queue. When this happens, it means that more events are being received than it can get rid of. This error means that it is going to lose the current event its trying to dispatch. It has the following choices:
.IR ignore ", " syslog ", " suspend ", " single ", and " halt ".
If set to
.IR ignore ,
the audisp daemon does nothing.
.I syslog
means that it will issue a warning to syslog.
.I suspend
will cause the audisp daemon to stop processing events. The daemon will still be alive. The
.I single
option will cause the audisp daemon to put the computer system in single user mode.
.I halt
option will cause the audisp daemon to shutdown the computer system.
.TP
.I max_restarts
This is a non-negative number that tells the audit event dispatcher how many times it can try to restart a crashed plugin. The default is 10.
.TP
.I plugin_dir
This is the location that audispd will use to search for its plugin configuration files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR audispd (8)
