.TH "AUPARSE_FLUSH_FEED" "3" "Apr 2016" "Red Hat" "Linux Audit API"
.SH NAME
auparse_flush_feed \- flush any unconsumed feed data through parser.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B #include <auparse.h>
.sp
.BI "int auparse_flush_feed(auparse_state_t *" au);"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.I auparse_flush_feed
should be called to signal the end of feed input data and flush any pending parse data through the parsing system.
.I auparse_add_callback()
must be called before flushing feed data so that complete events have a
consumer. Malformed feed records are rejected and are not passed to the
callback. If malformed records are found, parsing continues for the rest of
the available feed data before
.I auparse_flush_feed
returns an error.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

Returns \-1 if an error occurs; otherwise, 0 for success.
When \-1 is returned,
.I errno
is set to indicate the error. The value of
.I errno
is meaningful only after an error return; callers should not assume it is
cleared after a successful call.
Applications that may run with libauparse from before audit-4.1.5 should set
.I errno
to 0 before calling
.I auparse_flush_feed.
If
.I auparse_flush_feed
returns \-1 and
.I errno
is still 0, the runtime library is using the older error behavior and did not
set
.I errno.
Clearing
.I errno
first avoids treating a pre-existing value as if it were set by
.I auparse_flush_feed.

.SH "ERRORS"

.TP
.B EINVAL
The parser state is invalid, the parser was not initialized with
.B AUSOURCE_FEED,
or no callback has been registered.

.TP
.B ENOMEM
Memory allocation failed while parsing feed data.

.TP
.B EBADMSG
A malformed feed record was found. The malformed record was rejected and was
not passed to the callback. Parsing continues for the rest of the available
feed data before this error is returned.

.TP
.B EIO
An internal parser failure occurred without a more specific error code.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR auparse_feed (3),
.BR auparse_feed_age_events (3),
.BR auparse_feed_has_data (3)


.SH AUTHOR
John Dennis
